Second, let's see if we've got anything on that.
We're here today to try to get what I have in
background information in my 18 years with the
association. Yeah, I'm going to go ahead and turn
it on. We're trying what I really would like to talk
to you about. Well, anyway, that was the way the
book is going to develop. with the county agent,
animal husbandry problem, and probably deal a lot
with, I noticed in the literature over there, the
quacks or whatever they want to call them. Been
through all the files. thing. So that brings us up
to about World War II. And then I think the next
chapter is going to deal probably just with the
concept of urbanization, modern contemporary
developments, and so forth, changing profile of
the profession. Somewhere along there, and I
don't know quite what chapter it's going to fall
into, will be new technology and techniques and
problems within the profession, women coming in.
All of this is going to go somewhere. And then you
probably got your TVMA newsletter and there's an
insert going out in that thing to all the vets
asking them to send in any information or
experiences or something and so we're going to try
to run about two chapters which will really be a
personality profile I think it'd be fun you know
because everybody has a good story sure so what and
what I'd like to talk to you about you tell me too
because I'm getting my feet wet but one thing I want
to know is simply your personal background and how
you got in associated with the Texas Veterinary
Medical Association Then maybe some sort of broad
comment about what you think is historically
important in doing a study like this or a book. What
do you think people need to know? And then maybe get
into, you might say, some specific information
regarding your tenure as director. One theme I
want to try to pursue throughout all this thing I
don't know quite how we're going to define it yet,
but the human-animal bond. This has always been
with us as part of life. And here is how we handled it
in early Texas and modern Texas and so forth. And
it's still very much with us. So there's going to be
a caring theme, I hope, that will come out of all
this. That's very, very good. So tell me where you
got started. Well, I got started, of course, I have
an agricultural background as far as education.
From A&M? From Texas A&M. I'm a 1954 graduate of
Texas A&M, and I got a degree in agricultural
education, as a matter of fact. And, of course, I
had an agricultural background being reared on a
farm and kind of a diversified farm and ranch. My
daddy had eight children, so he did everything in
agriculture from trade cattle to farm peanuts,
cotton, grew hogs and horses and so forth. Where
were you? Houston County, Texas, which is a little
town called Grape Land, Texas. Where I went to high
school, I grew up about four and a half miles out of
the country. South of Jasper? Where is Grape Land?
Grape Land is in Houston County, north of
Crockett. South of Palestine. It's just across
the Trinity River. You know, East Texas begins and
ends at the Trinity River. At least in that part of
the state. And I grew up on a small, diversified
farm. I grew up on a small farm, several hundred
acre farm, but we did all the small things in
agriculture. We weren't big operators. And the
county agent was an important man. Oh,
absolutely. And so was the ag teacher. Probably in
my community, the ag culture teacher was the most
prominent person in agriculture. He did some of
this old They looked to the ag teacher to be the
authority that knew more than the producer did. Of
course, the county agent was too, but in fact, my
greatest influence to do what I did was to call in my
vocational agriculture teacher. His name was
J.C. Schultz, and he was an old pioneer. And he
encouraged me because he wanted me to be a teacher
like he was. into vocational agriculture and
future farmer work and I became a public speaker
for the chapter. In fact, I won second in the state
public speaking contest in 1947. That's a long way
back. I was only about 14, 15 years old. But then, of
course, I was never anything that I was going to do
except be a vocational agriculture teacher
because that's That was my motivation, and I went
to Texas A&M and graduated in 1954 with a degree in
ag education. At that time, the Korean War was on,
and all the older guys that had already graduated
two or three years ago were coming back from the
war. So it made it pretty hard for a young man 22
years old to get a job in teaching. So Extension was
doing some expansion in those days. So I went into
Extension, and I was in county agricultural work.
in Anderson County in Palestine as an assistant,
and then I was an associate agent in Panola County,
which was working with adult farm and ranch
people. At that time... My dad was an old county
agent. Oh, really? Yeah, he was in Plaquemine
Parish, Louisiana in the 1920s and early 30s.
Another world. He had a lot of stories, didn't he?
Yes, he did. But anyway, I got involved in farm
organization work. The Texas Farm Bureau was
beginning to expand into East Texas. They had
never really had any members in East Texas. And
they were beginning to expand their membership
over there, and it was a very slow proposition. I
got very interested in farm organization work,
and about that time they offered me an opportunity
to become a field representative for the Texas
Farm Bureau, which would be organizing and
working with county farm bureaus. And the only
locations they had were one in Austin and one in
Lubbock. I didn't have much trouble with that, so I
came to Austin. Eventually, I moved to Taylor and
then came to Austin. And as it would work out, they
asked me if I'd work in the legislative office
during the session to help out the legislative
director because they needed somebody to come in
and help. So I got very, very interested in
government repairs and legislative work. And
back to the point, I was just fascinated with it.
So, anyway, I told them that I wanted to go back. I
didn't know how I was doing that work, but I wanted
to go back to the field and if it worked out fine. If
it didn't, I still, but I enjoy it and I like it. So,
as luck would have it, the person that I worked with
at the legislative office at Farm Bureau decided
to take another job in the Valley, running another
organization. And at that time, I pretty much
settled out that I was going to stay where I was. But
then, to make a long story short, they influenced
me to come back. to take the legislative office
over. I was 29 years old. That's a nice job. And I was
a little scared to death, but I think that's what
made me succeed, because I knew that I had a pretty
big responsibility. And I stayed with them for two
sessions, a 63
and 65 session, 1963 and 1965. And that's when my
acquaintance struck up with the Veterinary
Medical Association. That time, 1962, was the
first year that Texas passed a sales tax. It was a 2%
limited sales tax. Well, there was a big push on to
exempt certain items, including food and drugs.
Well, it turned out that veterinary drugs did not
meet the definition of drugs
that they were going to exempt.
The executive director at that time was Glenn
Savage, who you'll run across somewhere in the
history of this organization. And he was down here
from Fort Worth where the office was at that time.
And I was with the Farm Bureau, and he asked me if I
would help him try to secure an exemption for
veterinary drugs, because the definition of
drugs was for, was human drugs, for a practitioner
of the healing arts. The definition didn't fit the
veterinarian. The veterinarian at that time, and
I don't know where they are yet, was not described
as a practitioner of the healing arts, so that's
the way the exemption read in the tax bill in 1962.
So they asked me, and at that time it was a big fight
to not take any amendments on the floor. Everybody
agreed that we were going to have a tax bill, but
they took one amendment and were afraid to destroy
the bill. So they asked me, and I said, well, I think
the only chance we've got is to go to the
comptroller's office and see if he would make an
interpretation, if he on his own would make an
interpretation that veterinary drug did indeed
fit the exemption. So we got a comptroller's
ruling on that for that session. And that was the
beginning of my, even my knowledge of the
association. And that was their big, that was
their big bag in 1962. So you did get that
interpretation from the Comptroller? We did get
it. And then that stuck basically there? Yeah,
what we did later, of course, was write it. We did
get a rewrite of the bill, but at that time, as I
said, we could have... Nobody was really... I
think we could have gotten it, but the deal was made
that we weren't going to change the tax bill. So
that means we left out. When you left out, you're
always left out. Chances are. So anyway... We got
that done, and then, of course, they were very nice
to me and appreciated it. And, of course, it was in
my interest, too, but I represented people who had
cattle, you know, and kind of worked together. So
anyhow, about in the 1965 session, we came back and
rewrote the tax bill to make it clear. other than
just the comptroller's ruling that the
veterinary drug indeed was exempt, along with
other prescription drugs. It had to be a
prescription drug. And so, anyway, about old July
of 1965, Glenn Savage, the executive secretary at
that time they called him, called me up and wanted
to know if I wanted to be considered for the
executive secretary of the Texas Veterinary
Medicine Association. I told them I did not
because I had a job and I wasn't looking for one. And
they said, well, would you just agree to interview
with the committee? And they had put this thing in
the Wall Street Journal. You can't believe how
many hundreds of applications they had even then.
But they weeded it down to about, I don't know, 20 or
so, and I agreed to come. And like a lot of things
happen, I did agree to... to accept their offer
which really was a substantial raise for me at that
time and I had to make a decision and I did and I never
regretted it because I made a lot of friends and I
was really didn't know it at the time but I was
taking on a developing organization I was taking
on a developing organization
that really was fixing to get into its own. In other
words, it had come to the point in 1965, they were at
the place where the growth could really occur. In
other words, if certain things were plugged in,
and fortunately we were able to do that, that the
growth was going to be there. We called it a very
progressive era that we were in. veterinarians
were beginning to be more accepted, the
sophistication of small animal practice, the
growth of cities, and the fact that the
veterinarian in the country was taking on a
different and better image. And we were getting
more quality trained, smart people out in the
field. We were getting somebody that was above the
average agricultural type person that might wind
up in ag ed or or animal husbandry. We were getting a
real the real sharp kids coming in. So I had just a
good time. And I had had enough experience, I guess
that organization that I knew some things that had
to be done. In other words, you had to start doing
some new things, some things that were not being
done just when I came Henry We pretty much
concentrated, it was a one-man office, one
secretary office. It was in Fort Worth. I went up
and personally moved it down myself with the help
of a trucker. And that was one of the
considerations that I made, that I would not be
interested in the job if I hadn't moved to Fort
Worth. Okay, that's what I'm wondering. So that
was part of the deal. That was part of the deal that I
struck, and I really cut across a lot of... a lot of
emotions when we did this because the office had
always been there. The treasurer had been
treasurer for, Dr. Cloud had been treasurer for
many, many years, very much respected, and that
meant that he would no longer be treasurer. Who was
that? Dr. Cloud. I believe it was E.G. Cloud. I saw
that literature. He was a very, very great man. I
think he was a graduate of the old Kansas City
Veterinary College. And at that time, he was in his
70s, and Of course, he seemed like a very, very old
person to me. Of course, it doesn't seem like he's
quite that old anymore at that age. But a very nice
person. But I was the person that, and with Dr.
Wallace Cardwell was president then. Dr.
Cardwell said, I'll take care of it. I'll talk to
Dr. Cloud. And I'll talk to the Fort Worth
veterinarians. And I will clear the air for you.
And the board has agreed to go along with what I
recommend. And that won't be your problem. And I
said, Bill. That's the deal. So anyway, to tell you
the story and short it down, I went up and visited
Dr. Plow. We went over to the bank, got all the
records.
If you need to stop and do something else, go ahead.
No, no, no. I've got the next phone call. I've got a
bill I'm trying to get introduced today. It's the
last day to introduce it, so it's been hanging in
the senator's office over there. That's an
orange. Yeah, it's going. Go ahead. Where would
you like for me to pick that up? Go ahead. You're
moving from Fort Worth to Austin. Right. And where
did you locate in Austin? Well, that's an
interesting story. I guess that's not important.
That's an interesting story. I'd always office
downtown because at that time I was still a fairly
young person. I was 33 years old at that time. And I
was assuming that they'd say, well, let's move
back to downtown. But I think they felt that the
change of me moving to the suburbs, which... could
hardly be called a suburb now without Hancock's
Shopping Center, which is out on Interstate 35
north. You'll see a Sears store out there. But
anyway, they had a small office building out
there. So we negotiated for a very small space,
three little offices in it, reception room, kind
of a work area, storage area, and then my office in
that. And I think they thought it would be good for
me to get away from my... the influence of
agriculture and the people that were around there
thought maybe change would be good to get me
thinking maybe more veterinary matters away from
the old. And I accepted that, and that certainly
wasn't a consideration in me coming to work. We
stayed out there for two years and tried to
renegotiate a contract. And it turned out that
Sears owned that building, Homework
Corporation. And they gave us some very, very
stringent terms that we couldn't afford. We were
still struggling. When we started, we had a
$25,000 budget.
I've got some notes on that. I think it was, I know it
was less than $30,000, but something like a
$25,000 annual budget. We had only about between
600 and 700 members. So at that time, we were only
getting, I believe, $25 or head for members so you
can figure out the budget pretty quick. Anyway, we
decided then to move back downtown. We moved down
on Browder Street and stayed there for three or
four years and that building was leased to the
state and we moved over to 6th and Congress, which
is called the Scarborough Building, and we began
to try to expand the size of our offices and add to
our staff at that time. because we were adding
programs all this time. We were adding new things.
When I first came, it was the convention, it was
membership, it was editing the Texas Veterinary
Medical Journal, and it was a summer seminar, and
maybe one or two specialized seminars at other
times during the year. But it really was the base of
the activity. Say that again. So TVMA convention,
summer seminars,
the journal, the TVMA journal. Right,
convention, membership, of course, retention
and development.
Journal editing, which was a six-time-a-year
publication that came out every month, which
still does, I guess. And... ready to continue
education program convention at the convention
both continuing education and the business
meeting type of situation and then we would have a
summer seminar which was our semi-annual meeting
more or less where the boards got together and then
we would put on a maybe special seminar too for say
the dairy practitioner or the small animal
practitioner this was before the local
associations developed strongly before they
could put on their own seminars They were
beginning to develop what I call the local
association like Harris County. Was that going on
before you came in? There were some local
associations then. Had that been basically
sponsored by the Texas? No, it was more... Or was
that just a local spontaneous type... Right, we
were supportive of it and the association had been
supportive. But it was pretty much a social event
for the local people to stay together and to talk.
more talk about problems, and then later on they
got on into continuing education. I want to come
back to that a little bit and talk about the
relations between the local association and the
state. Excuse me, go ahead. So when I came, as I say,
we were beginning to expand. At that time, I had
seen the fact that we had to get... One reason they
hired me, of course, is that they knew I knew
something about the legislative process. and
they knew that they would never ever be completely
free of the legislative process because of the
practice act and because of other things like tax
taxes and things that affect veterinarians in the
legislative process and of course I've had enough
of an association background to I guess to get a
little credibility on that side so But I began to
see... Had Savage or any of your predecessors
actively really been involved with the
legislature? They always hired somebody. They
hired a lobbyist, kind of like I am now, to come in
and handle certain bills and certain defensive
measures. Savage didn't know anything about
legislation and didn't want to. That was not his
bag, and that was acceptable. But he knew that it
had to be done, so he hired... people on the spot.
Okay, so your retention was with full knowledge
that this is what we need to do. We need to focus in
this direction. Right. It was a very strong point.
And, of course, I knew that, and I still believe
this, that all associations, you've got to have an
association manager first, and you've got to have
a lobbyist second. I mean, that may sound like I'm
talking against my profession, but The
management association legislation is just one
part of it. It's very, very important. And it's
real good that you get somebody that's what we call
a double-deed that can do association management
and legislation. And of course, I had a keen
interest in the legislation, and I wanted to do it.
But it's very, very time-consuming to be both. It
takes away from time. So you have to have a very good
number two person in the office sometimes to try to
do both. I always did. I never spent a dollar on a
lobbyist for an association. I never spent any
money on an attorney. I did the whole thing. But we
hired a CPA to be our auditor of our books like
always. Did you hire an assistant director or
anything? I hired a real good number one girl
Friday night. It took me two or three people to find
that girl. But she was from a military family and
needed a job and was very intelligent and had a lot
of experience in typing. And I later made her
office manager and started personnel. Who was
that man? Her name was Virginia Houghton,
H-O-U-G-H-T-O-N. Everybody called her Jenny.
She was an Iowa girl, an Iowa boy in the Air Force.
Found out at Berkshire, here in Austin. And...
She's very, very loyal, very supportive to me over
those years and pretty much ran the office. And I
can say for years, Henry, there was not anybody but
Jenny. We did it all. And I can say we're beginning
to see the need to expand into new areas. For
instance, I set up a political action committee
called VPAT, Veterans Political Action
Committee. I set that up to try to get the
veterinarians involved in the financial end of
legislation. You know, the story is that you can't
play the legislative game unless you play in the
political game. Yeah. So I was trying to promote
that and did, and we began to raise a little money to
help certain people that had helped us, you know,
pass bills and kill things. Yeah. I can't remember
the year, but you'll find it in the history of the
organization. We set it up prior to 1970,
somewhere between 1965 and 1970, we set up the
Veterinary Political Action Committee. The idea
being that you would make an extra dollar
contribution. We never did say it had to be $50. We
never did refuse to accept any amount. But it was
kind of a volunteer assessment, not an
assessment, but a request on the membership. It
didn't come out on the membership. It was just an
appeal that we made every so often to give to the...
As you would any political action committee any
time. And it had to be personal contributions.
Right, yeah. That made it a little tougher, but...
We had an influence of enough people to get it
started. Most of them are board members, past
presidents, officers, or those that were real
active in the local association. Is that still
going? They still have it running. I think they've
been able to raise pretty good money lately. Their
practice act was up last session before the
sunset, and they needed some friends, and they
needed radical action to So we set that up. Really,
I did that for two reasons. One was to try to... Did
you work for them on that incident? All around it.
All around it? You mean the BPAC? Yeah, no, I mean
now. I mean the last session of the legislature. I
worked around and with them. That's kind of
another story. Okay, I want to ask you that. The
agricultural groups were... or a little bit
concerned about some of the things, then they were
putting me in a very tough position. Anyway, I was
able to do some things. But anyway, we set that up,
and it became apparent that still we needed some
other things. At that time, the late 60s, there was
a big push on to require mandatory continuing
education for professionals.
And we were scared to death. As a matter of fact, we
didn't know how to get a handle on it. But there was a
lot of pressure coming down from the federal
people to require mandatory continuing
education. So we set up the Texas Academy of
Veterinary Practice, Texas Academy of
Veterinary Practice. OK, my next question. Yeah,
it sounded like it. TABP, Texas Academy of
Veterinary Practice, which Billy Tremere from
San Antonio was the first president. And Billy
asked me when he came in, he said, I want to do
something. I was sending him a blank. The Texas
Academy of Veterinary Practice. Texas Academy of
Veterinary Practice. He said, what is the most
needed thing we need to do? We've been in
legislation. We've broadened our continuing
education program. What do we need to do? This
thing scares me about mandatory CE. What can we do?
I said, I think what the professionals need to do,
the veterinarians, is to establish some image
that we're already doing a lot voluntarily. And I
said, you know, the physicians have what they call
an academy of physicians. These are the people
that go a step beyond. And I said, I'm not talking
about, you know, getting into the issuing of some
certificate for some school that you're going to a
lot of advanced things. We're talking about
practical things that practitioners
do. And he said, well, let's look into that. So we
talked to some people, including the Texas
Medical Association and the Texas Academy of
Medicine and some of those, and he said, why don't
we look at the possibility of setting up an academy
where we've set some standards where you have to
have so many hours of continuing education before
you can belong to the academy, and you have to keep
so many hours up so you can maintain your
membership, and that way we can demonstrate not
only to the regulators but to the public. that we
already you know we didn't we didn't leave school
and forget learning you know we we left the school
and we're continuing so we set that up in 1970 that
was five years after i got there i guess that was the
second outside second other group that we blended
in and we're very careful that all of these are all
all these things are under the umbrella of tbma
they were never Yeah, because you would create a
monster there, couldn't you? Oh, yeah. And it
still is that way. You can't be an academy if you're
not a TVA. You have to be the way the bylaws were
drawn, and I'm sure they're going to change a
little bit. So we set that up, and then we began to
get more deeply involved in stepping up our
activity and continuing education. At that time,
insurance was another thing that began to surface
as being a need. And everybody in the association
business that was in the insurance business made
money, unlike today. You know, there's just
plenty of people that don't want to be in the
insurance business and shouldn't be. And I got
into the association. I would warn them to be
careful about getting into the insurance. But we
got into the insurance business, set up our own
hospital program, our own life insurance thing,
you know, through companies. We sponsored them,
by the way. So it's a group insurance for all
purposes, medical, for liability, disability.
Workers' comp, set up the whole gauntlet of a
general insurance coverage. That's when we
really hired our third person, our next member of
the staff, named Claire Trautman,
T-R-O-U-T-M-A, Claire again. for some reason had
a military background, too. Her husband was in the
military and they retired here. Spell that again,
Clara. Clara, C-L-A-R-E-T-R-O-U-T-M-A-N,
Troutman. And we hired her to administer the
insurance program in cooperation with our
sponsor, the insurance
organization of the company that we represented
for us. And in addition, that gave us another staff
member to help on other things. She wasn't hired
exclusively for the purpose, but it gave us
another person to work in convention work,
another hand, another person to put out work. But
that lasted, it went down with the story of the
insurance, business in general, it just got
horrible. We did another thing too to raise money.
We were looking for supplemental income. We were
trying to keep them raising dues. Okay, so you were
taking kind of a fee on the policies. We were taking
a commission out of the company, the sponsoring
agency that we worked with was giving us a
percentage of the premium that was paid in. Did you
sell your policy to different carriers or...
Right. What we did, we got an agency out of Fort
Worth to set it up. And he was in complete control of
finding the source. The only heat we put on him was
that it had to be competitive. AVMA also had an
insurance program. And some of our members are
already in AVMA. But I have to be honest, we did
it... Two reasons. One is to get some extra income.
Two was to get some extra staff. I mean, I'm talking
like a manager now. Yeah, sure. I don't know
whether the board saw it that way completely, but
at least they supported it. Well, it should have
been a benefit to the members, too. It was a member
service, and that's another thing we were getting
to stress was member services. You know, we
stressed CE, we stressed political action, we
stressed the academy through CE, CE through the
academy. And we began to get more involved in
member services. At that point, we began to put in a
few products that large animal practices could
use, like vials and needles for brucellosis
testing. We were the source of that. You know, they
could only get the federal program testing for
brucellosis. And I don't know how many years I was a
disease brucellosis because it was contagious
abortion. And federal people had a program that
went through the state animal health commission
practitioner was authorized to do all the health
testing and blood testing. But they would not
release the materials to just anybody. They
wanted them to go through an agency type
situation, either through the government or
through us. So we convinced them to go through the
association. And that gave us another small
source of income. And let me ask you this. think
about or try to develop this into a broader
cooperative type of supply? No, we didn't. We
thought about it some. Because that's a danger.
Yeah, we ran into too many potential conflicts.
You know, the veterinarian likes to and should do
business in his community. So we didn't go into the
cooperative. We didn't go into trying to sell him
all of his needs for his hospital. So this is a
specialty product that's really controlled
basically through that. The only one that we were
really into. We did have some pamphlets that we
made available. They'd been into that before I
came, some pamphlets on client pamphlets. We were
into that somewhat.
But that gave us some more incomes, another
source. And by that time, we were beginning to need
some more staff. We began to hire more
clerical-type staff, people that could get in.
turnout work. We had three people, myself, Jenny,
and Claire, that were pretty much the upper level
staff. Then we began to hire support people, in
which when I left, before I left, there'd be nine,
we had nine people there, including we hired a
publications person, that person to do our
printing, to lay out our publications. See, I did
all that myself. I laid out the publication. I
wrote the publication. I laid it down. I did
everything except printing. And then we hired a
young man to come in to run our printing. At that
time, we were real deep in those new entities. We
were producing a lot of material. As you might
imagine, Academy had a lot of material. BPAC had a
lot of material. insurance program and all that so
we were getting kind of getting bogged down into a
workload
then about that time we uh got interested in
developing a foundation i don't know whether this
follows in the sequence here go right on because
these are key uh areas of development that's
that's fine i'll straighten them out so we decided
that uh what can we do that would augment all the
things that we're already doing. So we came up with
the idea of a non-profit C3 foundation. It wanted
to be tax exempt and it could raise money. It could
also go to other groups who had money and dedicate
money to things like continuing education,
research. We had a long-range plan of a foundation
building a building, you know, a museum and some of
these other things you probably heard talked
about. They were way back. But we were trying to
establish another organization that could be
supported not only by veterinarians but by
others. People in the drug business, people who
had other foundations who wanted to support. It
also gave us a non-profit status that we really
didn't need. In other words, we could legally run
all of our A lot of our printing, a lot of our CE could
go through the foundation if we wanted to. And it
would give us a break on things. See, the C6
Corporation was what the association is. And it
had certain things that were a little different
from the foundation, although we were also A tax
exempt, there were some things that we could not do
like we could do on the foundation. We did the
foundation primarily to do some things the
association couldn't do. And it floundered for a
while. All foundations do, and I've been involved
in some. We've been in them. They're slow to
develop. People come pretty impatient with them.
But you can't do that. that has to be allowed to
grow. And I guess we did the foundation probably in
the middle of the late 70s when we got into
developing the foundation. Now, who took
leadership in that among the membership? Were
there people who really got into that? Yeah, what
we did on that is we set it up to where we'd have some
past presidents of the organization. Okay, yeah.
Set it up where they could be elected. But we had
some slots in there where The treasurer had to be on
the foundation. The president had to be on the
foundation. And then we went out and picked, I
think we had a seven-member board. I think we had
five veterinarians and two public. So we went and
got a banker, got a livestock man on there. I
believe it was a seven-member board. The reason
for it, we wanted to expand and bring in the other
areas that are around us. But it was really still
all under the umbrella. You notice that the
Foundation, the one that's going to unwrap his
book, I wanted that too. Those kinds are perfect.
And I guess that was most of the new things we added.
I thought I had a file here with a few of the things in
it, but they're in storage.
What other area do we need to cover? OK, so again,
this is expansion, basically, from 65 on. All this
time. Now, we were growing about 100 members a year
all the time I was here. That was the time when I
came, we were graduating, what, 68? Yes, that's
steady. I remember that number. I should remember
it. Yeah. And then all of a sudden, we went to
trimester system. Yeah. They were going 130, 140.
I mean, it was just out of sight. And they were going
a year round. Instead of getting out in four years,
they were getting out in three or whatever. Oh,
man, they were clamoring, and they still are to get
into that program. So veterinary medicine was in a
real romance situation. Everybody wanted to be a
veterinarian, including a lot of women. So about
1965, I mean about 1967 or 8, We had our first woman
come in, too, and graduate. And then it got to be
where half or more of them were women. But we were
growing... Now, I was supposed to interview one of
those early women in San Antonio. I can't remember
her name either now, but... Mary Mainstrom. She's
a Georgia graduate. Are you trying to interview a
TMA, TMU grad tech being a graduate? No, she was
just one of the Billy Tremere's that said, you've
got to talk to her. Mary, I guess. She's a graduate.
See, they were admitting women way before we were.
Yeah. Oklahoma State was admitting women back in
that World War II. Yeah. Oh, yeah, and in fact, his
comment was, you know, she always felt like she had
to act like a man in order to get accepted around
here or something like that. So I'm looking
forward to meeting her. Yeah. But we were growing.
See, we were down, when I came, about 600 members,
and we left, when I left, it was something around
2,300. 22, 23 hundred. I can't remember exactly
what the exact number, but that's how much. My goal
was to grow 100 members a year, and we almost did
that. I mean, that's pretty much the way it wound
up. But, and we should have grown. Yeah. potential
was there. We went in a program where we gave
everybody a membership for the first year. Okay,
that's what I wanted to add. Let's work on this just
a second. You did get most of the people coming out
of A&M, for example, joined the TVMA, and that was
one way you enticed them is by giving them the first
year membership. That's good. That's a good
strategy. We gave them complimentary
registration when they were seniors to the
convention. They could come as senior students,
complimentary, and I think they still Maybe a
little surcharge or maybe $10, $20. We started
that, giving them a free registration and three
years membership. We put them in the same status as
we did a regular member when they got out. That's
great. Yeah. And so how was your retention? It
should have been substantial. It was real, real
good because of the fact that we did show about 100.
Yeah. See, also, Henry, in those days, we're
beginning people. moving out of the state. You can
imagine doubling the size of your veterinary
school and that everybody couldn't get a job in
Texas. A little town like Austin, for instance,
they went from half a dozen veterinarians to 17 or
18 in a matter of four or five years. And it's
beginning to be a situation where where we're
going to put all these people. And I think the
students sensed that maybe we've got to go to the
other states. We began to lose some that way. Of
course, we brought some in, too. We brought
everything we could to get the people that came in,
especially the military. At that time, the draft
of the military requirements was more than what
they are now. And most of them went on to service the
eligible people. And we tried to romance them by
keeping them in the association as long as they
were in the service. And then when they came back,
we tried to nab them. So we, I don't know, I never put
a percentage figure on it, but you also got your
backdoor loss. You're always going to lose a few
people by death, retirement, and you'll get a few,
I guess, disgruntled. But the counting was good.
Time was perfect. Let's talk about why this was
such a nice time for the vet profession in Texas.
The economy was booming. I would be very unfair if I
took complete credit for doing all this without
the type of economy that we had. It was a romance
time. It was a time when veterinary medicine took
on a much better image, and I'd like to think that we
had some part in that. Okay. Oh, another thing we
sponsored during that time, Henry, was the Mark
Francis Award, which recognized media, the
media. Now, this was done about early 70s. That was
done to recognize the media that did the best
reporting about veterinary medicine in their
local community. And we routed TV stations, radio
stations, newspaper writers, small and large. We
had it set up where So many people could be from a
newspaper with a circulation of X number and some
of them in another category if they were like a
Houston Post or a Dallas News. We also had a radio TV
section that we put in and we honored anybody that
did the reporting. As I say, the image of
veterinary medicine, they were aware of the
veterinarian. Like I say, it was a great time.
After I left in 83, the economy, the worst year in
the economy had been since then, you know. You
don't have to explain what's happened since 83. I
think about 84 is when it really all set in, you
know. The real estate business went to hell. So it
all impacted, and of course, livestock prices
were always up and down, but a small animal
practitioner, I think, had to feel perhaps more of
the economy. But Houston was growing, Dallas was
growing, the metroplex was growing, the suburbs
and the little towns and people becoming more
sophisticated with their animals, their pet
animals. We had a lot of influx of the new breeds of
cattle. Yeah, right. By the way, that's another
thing we set up was the Southwestern Animal Health
Conference for Livestock Men. That's a long name,
isn't it? We did that in the early... Animal Health
Conference for... Yeah, Animal Health
Conference for Livestock Men. That was a direct
effort to put the veterinarian on stage, for
instance, and we broke it up into sections. We'd
have an equine section, we'd have a provine
section, we'd have a dairy section, we'd have a
horse-like equine. But anyway, we broke that down
and we would take a weekend and started doing it
before the convention each time. It got to be a
nightmare for the staff. Yeah, we had to handle two
conventions. Two conventions almost at once. So
what we did is we would take topics that the that
were new topics or things that veterinarians
wanted to their livestock people needed to know
about if it were an embryo transfer or if it was a new
surgical procedure in horses or if it was a new
practice in the dairy industry trying to get
people interested in what the qualifications of
the veterinarian was what he could do if they would
really come and listen so we put on seminars on all
day Saturday, all day Sunday, every year for about
a whole half dozen years, I guess. And the client,
the veterinarian would invite their clients in.
And they would take them, the dairy clients, to the
dairy section. We'd use our own members most of the
time to teach these classes. And we'd get other
people. If we needed somebody that had the
expertise we needed, we'd go to other
universities or other practitioners in other
states. And we would put on a showcase, more or
less, of what the veterinarian can do. If you're a
beef cattle man, here's some of the things that we
can help you with. And herd health was a real big
name. It was a buzzword, herd health management.
And that was real big in the dairy business because
if you get a dairyman on herd health management, in
other words, you took care of his nutrition, You
pregnancy tested animals so often. You checked
their milking equipment and their mammary
systems and how they were buying their
replacements. The veterinarian became a manager
in the dairy and also in herd health. Of course,
feedlot got to be a big thing. That was another one.
Feedlot was beginning to make its mark. We had a
feedlot section. We'd bring in the feeders, both
the big ones and those who had cattle that they just
put in feedlots. So we try to educate the producers
on what the veterinary professionals do.
What do you think the...